in the summer of 2014
Viktor Kazakh chenko was riding his
motorcycle across the steppe of northern
Kazakhstan he was heading to a nearby
town to run some errands but he never
arrived
cousin Chico was hit by a mysterious
illness that made him blackout and fall
asleep while riding he woke up four days
later in the hospital with no memory of
what happened and he wasn't the only one
the village of kolache in Kazakhstan has
been struck by a true medical enigma
it's causing people to fall asleep for
days at a time interestingly when they
come out of it they have no recollection
of what happened 46 year-old Taisha from
kolache experience this Sleepy Hollow
three times in just a few years the
first time was in 2012 she was going
through her regular routine at work when
all of a sudden she felt lightheaded
when she got home she blacked out and
woke up a few days later in the hospital
a neighbor of hers had rushed to help
her but while they were driving back
home her friend fell asleep as well the
second time this happened was in March
of 2014 she was getting ready to go to a
concert when suddenly she started
feeling dizzy again she sat down on a
chair fell asleep and woke up five days
later in the hospital her latest
experience however was slightly
different in February of 2015 she had
another sleep attack but it was on her
feet It was as if her legs were
paralyzed and she couldn't walk properly
that episode lasted three days and even
though taisiya wasn't asleep she was
walking around and talking as if she
were under anesthesia the weirdest part
is she couldn't remember any of it
this mysterious epidemic was spreading
across the village fast but nobody
really knew what was causing it Taisha
wasn't the only one affected by this in
her family either in 2013 her partner
also fell asleep while he was fishing he
blacked out on the boat and one of his
buddies drove him to the hospital when
Taisha heard of the event she rushed to
his side there they were able to have
small talk but his speech was
disoriented and many of the things he
was saying didn't make sense when he
finally woke up from the Sleepy Hollow
he was well but didn't have any
recollection of what happened or talking
to his spouse in a period of three years
more than 100 people were affected by
this mysterious illness in kolache both
adults and children had been through
sleepy spells at lasted days the
weirdest part is some of them are
completely immune to this disease while
others have experienced it multiple
times so what does a person truly feel
like when they become affected well it
all starts with lightheadedness and then
you feel like your legs are too heavy to
walk when you get struck you fall asleep
within minutes and might be
hallucinating about random things until
you're out of it witnesses who've been
around people while experiencing this
mysterious disease notice that when they
try to talk to them they seem like
they're listening but they can't open
their eyes or move their mouth it seemed
like something similar to sleep
paralysis since the illness occurs so
suddenly the patient's speech also
becomes slurred making it difficult to
understand what they're saying and the
problems don't end when they wake up
after they open their eyes apart from
the memory loss they have difficulty
speaking and they struggle to stay awake
it's as if they just woke up from
surgery and once you stop talking to
them they instantly fall back to sleep
for a while according to a report this
disease also affected an animal as well
it was a cat named Marquess the owner
claimed that the cat started acting
weird and unpredictably
at first she was meowing
sadly and then she started attacking
everything walls furniture whatever
stood in her way she finally went to
sleep that evening but according to her
owner she was snoring like a real person
because of this reoccurring phenomenon
the Kazakh authorities offered all the
Village residents the chance to relocate
to other areas of the surrounding
regions more than 55 families moved out
of the village and approximately 100
more are in the process of doing so
however some of the people who were
affected refused to leave because they
don't believe that these sleepy spells
are actually dangerous after the
outbreak doctors and scientists started
doing extensive research to find out
what the cause could be at first
everyone thought this was some sort of
intolerance to a specific drink however
this theory was later disproven when
kids started being affected then they
turned their focus to encephalopathy
which is a form of brain malfunction
however there was no basis for that
either so they abandoned that theory
altogether doctors and scientists alike
were determined to get to the bottom of
this so they started doing lab tests as
well they conducted approximately 7,000
tests on water soil air and the
patient's blood hair and nails but they
found nothing
so they started eliminating utilities to
single out the problem they ceased the
underground gas supply and even turned
off the local phone towers they even
checked for high radiation levels and
radon gas as well as for heavy metals
bacteria and viruses in the water supply
of the area this process was no piece of
cake either because they couldn't
pinpoint the root of the problem and all
their attempts were fruitless
coincidentally scientists began
suspecting an abandoned uranium mine two
miles away from the village of kolache
some of them believe that the radon gas
from the mine was seeping through the
ground causing oxygen deprivation to
people and therefore memory loss but
there were several issues with that when
scientists studied the levels of
radiation and uranium levels in kolache
they found them to be
normale the other thing is that high
levels of irradiation cause organ damage
not sleepiness so if it wasn't radiation
then what was it
there's another theory out there
speculating about something more surreal
it claims that people were suffering
from some sort of mass hysteria and they
wanted to leave the village but they
didn't have the means to do it
so they subconsciously invented this
illness to manipulate the authorities
into helping them out this theory was
based on information that only one
animal was reported to be affected by
the disease while the rest of them
remained unharmed
but they wouldn't have known if more
animals were affected unless they
followed them around also from what
we've seen earlier that couldn't be the
case since some of the residents who
were affected stubbornly refused to
leave the story of the Sleepy Hollow was
becoming stranger and stranger prompting
curiosity from all around the world that
was when Victor cria cough the former
director of the uranium mine came out
with some interesting statements he
claimed that the most plausible
explanation for these sleep attacks was
carbon monoxide
according to Victor the gas is seeping
through the ground causing people to
fall asleep
he claimed that uranium had nothing to
do with it but the uranium mine did okay
folks I know it sounds confusing but
I'll get to that in a jiff to make
things even more interesting we also
have an explanation on why these attacks
began after 2010 almost 20 years after
the mine closed so let's take a deep
dive into some chemistry uranium is a
non ferrous metal and like most
non-ferrous metals it's usually found in
mountainous areas the uranium mine near
kolache village was also in a
mountainous area and it had inclined
entrances that allowed people to go as
deep as 2,100 feet after the mine was
closed it stopped pumping water out so
for more than 20 years all the voids had
been filling up with water
now since the mine was abandoned all the
supporting wood they used while digging
was left
as the water rose the wood began to
oxidize and that was when the problem
began since the mine was also 20 100
feet deep a pressure of sixty three
atmospheres was created when this
happens a chemical reaction occurs and
the water turns into lighter gases at
the surface of the mine
think of the mine like a bottle of soda
when you open it the gases escape and
the liquid stays at the bottom well at
least most of the time when carbon
monoxide in hydrocarbon levels rose it
caused the oxygen levels to drop so it's
easy for this type of gas to escape
through the cracks because there's no
oxygen in it if a person is unlucky
enough to be passing by and inhale the
air then the carbon monoxide enters
their bloodstream and they lose
consciousness or in other words fall
asleep after that statement scientists
started researching cryo cough theory
and he was proven right the
concentration levels of carbon monoxide
in the underground air were at their
maximum permissible whereas the oxygen
was below the normal levels
scientists are keen on doing more
research in the area to get some answers
for example these sleepy Hollow's only
happen during the winter and spring so
they're trying to find a pattern to
explain what brings the gas to the
surface that time of the year well how
about you would you ever consider
visiting the village of kolache please
let me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today then give
this video a like and share it with a
friend but hey don't go riding your bike
through a clot of gas just yet we have
over 2,000 cool videos for you to check
out all you have to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life